SUHAN GAUTAM  Software Engineer | AI & Data Science Specialist  +61 0411061575 |   suhangautam@gmail.com   | LinkedIn:   linkedin.com/in/suhan-gautam   | GitHub:   github.com/Suhan12  CAREER PROFILE  Master's graduate in Information Technology (AI & Data Science) from UNSW, Sydney, with strong experience in AI-  driven applications, full-stack development, and cloud computing. Proficient in machine learning, big data analytics,  and automation. Passionate about leveraging technology for business optimization and digital transformation. Long-  term aspirations include excelling as an   AI and Machine Learning Engineer , contributing to innovative AI solutions,  and shaping the future of intelligent systems across industries.  EDUCATION  Master of Information Technology (AI & Data Science), University of New South Wales, Sydney (2022 – 2024)  Specialized in AI and Data Science.     Executive Member of PETSOC Club, UNSW.  Bachelor of Technology (Computer Science and Engineering), Dr. A.P.J Abdul Kalam Technical University (2018 –  2022)  Member of Computer Society of India and National Cadet Corps.     Core Member of ECell, Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology.  PROFESSIONAL YEAR PROGRAMME  ACS Professional Year Programme – ICT Stream (09 February 2025 – Present)  Structured professional development programme recognised by the Department of Home Affairs for skilled migration  points, combining workplace internship with industry-focused ICT training.  ENGLISH PROFICIENCY  PTE Academic – Pearson Test of English  Overall Score:   89/90   — Superior English proficiency, recognised by the Department of Home Affairs for skilled  migration.  PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS     Executive Member –   PETSOC Club, UNSW.     Member –   Computer Society of India.     National Cadet Corps (NCC) –   Certificate A Holder.  CERTIFICATIONS     AWS Certified Machine Learning – Specialty     Google TensorFlow Developer Certificate     Deep Learning Specialization – Coursera     Data Science and Big Data Analytics – edX  PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  Data Analyst, Sutherland Shire Council, Sydney NSW (31 March 2025 – Present)     Managed the extraction and transformation of   legacy system data   for decommissioning, utilising   data  engineering and data management principles   for a secure cloud migration.     Performed   data analytics and numerical analysis   to profile legacy data, identify anomalies, and implement  specialised tools to systematically   clean datasets .     Established   enterprise data frameworks , creating data standards, lifecycles, and analytical classification and  coding structures to govern council information.     Implemented strict   quality assurance and quality management protocols , using measurement techniques to  track   data integrity   and define quality metrics.

   Conducted   business situation analysis and business modelling   to understand the specific challenges of various  business units and deliver tailored data solutions.     Led   requirements definition and management   sessions to capture stakeholder needs and configure enterprise  software systems to meet those specifications.     Transformed complex datasets into actionable   business intelligence , leveraging   data visualisation   to build  dashboards and reports for stakeholders.     Provided internal application support, developing detailed   working instructions   and actively   training business  units   to ensure competence with new software systems.     Ensured strict adherence to   data privacy and governance regulations   throughout the entire data migration  lifecycle to secure sensitive community records.  Software Trainee, Webomates Inc. USA (April 2022 – August 2022)     Designed and implemented multiple NLP techniques to improve accuracy for the existing AI model segment  which predicts JIRA defects.     Developed multiple   AWS lambda functions   in python to create reports and supporting tools for the AI defect  predictor.     Collated and implemented Image detection techniques like   Faster R-CNN model, YOLO V5, VGG16   for execution  of project.  AI Intern, Webomates Inc. USA (October 2021 – April 2022)     Improved JIRA defect prediction   accuracy by 15%   through developing multiple Python-based lambda functions.     Created a program to predict similarity between two corpus using   TFIDF and SIF embeddings .     Collated and implemented NLP techniques like   BERT, T5, TFIDF, SIF   for execution of project.  IT Intern, Mosaic Media Ventures Pvt. Ltd., Hindustan Times House, New Delhi (March 2021 – June 2021)     Project scope included improving functionality and performance pertaining to   CRM website (www.vccircle.com) .     Worked with IT department in managing CRM website.     Implementation of   Codeigniter Framework   (PHP) was used for execution of project.  Summer Intern, Adaptive IT Systems Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi (May 2020 – July 2020)     Designed and developed various tools using Java, Python, C++.     Worked with MongoDB and Industry Level Codebase.   Cleaned up the database .     Worked with cross-functional team of design and implementation of company records and Document  Management Solutions.  Summer Intern, Mantra IT Systems Pvt. Ltd., Gurgaon, Haryana (June 2019 – August 2019)     Created database function and table based on current and proposed solutions.     Worked on a project titled Time Sheet System.   Improved the workflow .     Utilized my technical expertise in SQL database, process analysis, workflow design/development.  KEY PROJECTS  Traffic Sign Recognition System (Feb 2022 – Jun 2022)     Collected data from Kaggle to be used to train a deep learning network (GTSRB Dataset).     Researched and implemented multiple pre-trained models for the best accuracy like   ResNet-50, VGG16 .     Experimented multiple hyperparameters for a CNN model.     Achieved an   accuracy of 96%   (unseen data) on a   4-layer CNN model .  Eatery Management System, UNSW Capstone Project (Feb 2024 – May 2024)     Frontend Development: Created a responsive UI with   React , delivering a seamless customer experience.     Backend Development: Utilized   Django   for backend logic and managed   REST API   calls to ensure smooth data flow  between client and server.     Recommender System: Implemented a   recommendation model   that personalizes eatery suggestions based on  user preferences, enhancing search results.  TECHNICAL SKILLS     Programming:   Java, Python, C, C++, JavaScript (React.js, Node.js, Angular.js), PHP.

   Machine Learning & AI:   TensorFlow, Keras, Scikit-Learn, NLP, Deep Learning.     Databases & Visualization:   SQL, MongoDB, Tableau, Pandas, Matplotlib.     Development & Deployment:   Django, Flask, Express.js, CodeIgniter, Docker, AWS CLI.     Software Tools:   JIRA, Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda, Git, VS Code.  REFERENCES     Michael Silas:  Ph.D. Global Head of Cybersecurity Science and Analytics Data and Platform Engineering, HSBC  michaelsilas@gmail.com     Preeti Gupta:  Artificial Intelligence Technical Architect, Webomates  preeti.preetigupta2000@gmail.com     Sanjeev Sharma:  Embedded/Communications Engineer  sksharma1501@gmail.com